---
layout: post
title: "Todoist: Finally a Todo Tool for Me?"
tags: [english, blog, google, todoist, internet, productivity]
---
Recently I found the [Task-App Todoist][todoist]{:target="_blank"} mentioned in
an [article at Golem.de][golem]{:target="_blank"}. I had already tried it the
[last time][rants] and possibly ditched it for one needs the premium version to
get the full feature set and avoid the occasional "buy premium" hint.

This time I investigated the tool more thoroughly. The eye catcher was the
Google Calendar 2-way sync. I gave it a second chance and, after some search,
found the link to start the [30-day-trial of
premium][premium]{:target="_blank"}.

For now it looks like my task tool of choice:
* The 2-way sync with Google Calendar works mostly like a charme. Rarely it
  produces a duplicate. I got all my old tasks imported into Todoist. Then I
  resynced into new calendars and droped the old ones.
* One could argue that I do not need the premium features, but the label feature
  makes task organisation a bit more convenient and I want to honor the effort
  of operating the system.
* The basic handling feels well designed and Todoist integrates as well into my
  personal workflow.
* Nice feature: markdown formatting of task titles.

What can improved?
* There are some key bindings I miss, e.g. some "show today".
* Recurrent tasks in Todoist work a bit different from recurrent events in
  Calendar: I'd like an option to see future occurences of tasks.
* Defining recurrence by textual input works well, but occasionally I miss
  something like the appointment series editor UI of Outlook.
* Also: more complex recurrences would be fine: e.g. "every 3rd monday every 2nd
  month".

[rants]: 2020/06/28/todo-or-not.html
[golem]: https://www.golem.de/news/workflow-arbeite-lieber-asynchron-2007-149420.html
[todoist]: https://todoist.com
[premium]: https://todoist.com/premium/free_trial
